In this lesson we will learn about the H TMLC element named S..
So we know that the div or division element can be used as a generic container and we know that the
article element can be used for a standalone coherent piece of content.
So where does the section element come into play.
You can think of sections as chapters or in other words we can break up an overall piece of content
into smaller sections or subsections.
So here's an example page and this is the book title.
This is chapter one.
This is chapter two and this is chapter 3.
So as you might expect if we look at the Code Chapter 1 The heading in paragraph element live within
a section element.
Now this section element is doing two things for us.
Number one it's creating semantic meaning or hierarchy in structure amongst our content and number two
when we eventually learn how to add style to our page with CSS we can target section elements.
So perhaps we can add borders between the different chapters.
So that is the section element in a nutshell.
It's fairly straightforward but I do want to point out that we can nest one section inside another section
.
So for example here is Chapter 2 and if we look at the HTL code for this area we can see this is where
Chapter 2 begins.
This is where it ends.
And within Chapter Two there's an additional subsection and we see that represented here in the browser
.
Now the reason that I'm bringing up sections within sections or subsections is because it changes the
way we view the H-1 through age 6 elements.
Now if we look at the headings on this example page at least visually it seems as though this is an
age when this is an age too.
This is an age too this is an age 3 and this is an age too but in reality if we look at the age TNL
code we can see that every heading on the page even the heading in this subsection is using the H one
element.
So this means that when we would traditionally use the H1 h to h h four elements to create a structure
or a hierarchy of importance we can alternatively rely on the section element to create that same sense
of structure and hierarchy or in other words an H1 heading that lives within a section is the mathematical
equivalent of an H2 element that didn't live in a section or we can say that in each one element that
lives within a section that lives within a section is equivalent to an H three element that doesn't
live in any sections.
So on and so forth.
So we could theoretically create an additional section within this subsection example tie it all here
.
Create a bit of dummy text and we see that this new heading is equivalent to what an H for element would
look like if it wasn't in any sort of section.
Now I realize this is quickly becoming quite confusing.
So I will put an end to this discussion by saying that if you search the web for an answer on whether
you should use sections and subsections or whether you should just use H-1 through age 6 you will find
many different answers.
Everyone has a different opinion on how you should structure your page and I've seen excellent arguments
for all different sides.
I will say this as long as you choose a method to create hierarchy amongst your content to create organization
and structure and are consistent with that structure.
I believe that you will be fine at the end of the day all that matters is that your content is accessible
has semantic meaning and makes sense from a document outline perspective or a bird's eye view or a table
of contents vantage point because again each DML and web browsers change over time.
But the art of organizing and structuring content is timeless.
Which is why I often used metaphors to printed books even if that makes me sound like a dinosaur.
Making sure that our content is easy to digest is very important.
So I will see you in the next lesson.